# Using Social Media Data to Reveal Patterns of Policy Engagement in State Legislatures

This repository contains the replication code for the paper _"Using Social Media Data to Reveal Patterns of Policy Engagement in State Legislatures"_, authored by Julia Payson, Andreu Casas, Jonathan Nagler, Richard Bonneau, and Joshua A. Tucker. Accepted for publication at _State Politics and Policy Quarterly_.

> __Abstract__:
> State governments are tasked with making important policy decisions in the United States. How do state legislators use their public communications -particularly social media- to engage with policy debates? Due to previous data limitations, we lack systematic information about whether and how state legislators publicly discuss policy and how this behavior varies across contexts. Using Twitter data and state of the art topic modeling techniques, we introduce a method to study state legislator policy priorities and apply the method to fifteen U.S. states in 2018. We show that we are able to accurately capture the policy issues discussed by state legislators with substantially more accuracy than existing methods. We then present initial findings that validate the method and speak to debates in the literature. For example, state legislators in competitive districts are more likely to discuss policy than those in less competitive districts, and legislators from more professional legislatures discuss policy at similar rates to those in less professional legislatures. We conclude by discussing promising avenues for future state politics research using this new approach.
